# Virtual Metrology: A Solution for Wafer to Wafer Advanced Process Control
PH Chen, S Wu, J Lin, F Ko, H Lo, J Wang, CH Yu and MS Liang, IEEE International Symposium on Semiconductor Manufacturing, 2005
## Features
- A single wafer high density plasma CVD reactor can be used to deposit doped or undoped silicon oxide from a reactive mixture of silane, oxygeon, helium and hydrogen.
- The high density plasma is created by inductively coupling energy from a low frequency generator through a copper coil. Wafer is capacitively coupled with a high frequency power source through electrostatic chuck.
- Various sensor can be installed on the tool to monitor various tool conditions such as temperature, power, flow rate, pressure, optical emission spectrum, and plasma impedance.

# An Approach for Factory-Wide Control Utilizing Virtual Metrology
AA Khan, JR Moyne and DM Tilbury, IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing, 2007
## Features
- Lithography: FD variables collected in realtime on the coater/developer tool, interferometry signals that are used to calculate reflectivity and transmittance of the exposed light.
- Plasma Etch: Gas species concentrations, DC bias, pressure valve position & temperature, electrostatic chunck current & voltage, RF reflected power from upper & lower electrodes, DC voltage at the upper & lower electrodes.
- NO DETAILS ON CVD!

# A Novel Virtual Metrology Scheme for Predicting CVD Thickness in Semiconductor Manufacturing
MH Hung, TH Lin , FT Cheng and RC Lin, IEEE Transactions on Mechatronics, 2007
## VMS requirements
- Equipment parameters need to be transformed into proper input variables of the VM module.
- When actual metrology data are unavailable, VMS should provide users with an index indicating the credibility of VM results.
- The VMS should timely update the VM module to match physical data.
- The VMS is capable of sending alarm messages to notify users to activate actual metrology.
## Sensor Selection Rules
- Exclude the turned-off sensors in the process.
- Eliminate sensors with constant values in the temporal chart, which shows sensor data versus time, because they do not affect the actual metrology value.
- Among the sensors measuring the same physical property, only one is selected.
- Delete the sensors that are the linear combination of selected sensors.
- Exclude the sensors that only relate to the processing step number because they are irrelevant to the process.
## Data Preprocess
- Data Completeness: Data completeness involves dealing with missing values, smoothing out noise while identifying outliers, and correcting inconsistencies in data.
- Data Normalization: The purpose of data normalization is to scale the raw data such that all the data are on the same baseline.
- Data Reduction: Data reduction is to process all the data by the stepwise selection method to remove insignificant data.

# Benefit Model of Virtual Metrology and Integrating AVM into MES
FT Cheng, JYC Chang, HC Huang, CA Kao, YL Chen and JL Peng, IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing, 2011
## Notes
- The VM solution must be adaptive: Resolved by the dual-phase VM Scheme.
- The VM solution must incorporate VM data quality prediction: Resolved bt the reliance index.
- The VM methods need to be improved for determining the fault detection factor that are the best VM predictors: Resolved by the global similarity index (GSI) and individual similarity index (ISI).
- The VM solution must be developed to be re-usable: Resolved by the automatic model refreshing.
## VM senarios
- [Easy] Film thickness measurements: 50% replacement rate because VM can be easily conjectured from the current tool’s process data.
- [Medium] Critical dimension measurements: 20% replacement rate because VM needs the current tool’s process data and pre-process metrology data to be accurately predicted.
- [Difficult] Defect inspections and scans: 2% replacement rate because it is difficult to predict the defects induced by the current tool and from the process integration by applying VM technology.

# A Virtual Metrology System for Predicting CVD Thickness with Equipment Variables and Qualitative Clustering
GA Susto, A Beghi and C DeLuca, ETFA, 2011
## Qualitative Data Clustering
- In current fab plants, high-mix manufacturing processes are run.
- Several recipes are run on the same equipment. Recipes can be grouped by their thickness target value.

# Growing Structure Multiple Model System for Quality Estimation in Manufacturing Process
A Bleakie and D Djurdjanovic IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing, 2016
## Notes
- An obvious weakness of all linear regression based VM methods is their inability to deal with nonlinear dependencies between equipment signatures and metrology variables.
- Besides the obvious emphasis in the relevant literature on achieving the highest possible accuracy of VM models, another major focus of the research is enabling VM models to detect new (unforeseen) operating conditions and adapt to them.
- The main complication with this type of models is that "all" of its model parameters are potentially affected whenever the system enters a regime outside of where the model is trained.
## Divide and Conquer Modeling Strategy
- The divide and conquer paradigm for modeling non-linear dynamic system is based on dividing the operating space of the system into a number of sub-regions, with a different dynamic model being valid in each of these sub-regions.
- Development of growing SOMs, such as growing neural gas and growing cell structures, enabled addition and removal of local models in the corresponding multiple model system.
## Features
- Selection Method: In this work, a simple PLS regression model, within a forward selection wrapper with a 10 fold cross validation, was used for selecting the most relevant inputs for the model.

- HF Reflected Timing Dep One @(t-4)
- Tune Capacitor Volt Max Dep Two @(t)
- Load Capacitor Volt Mean Dep One @(t-10)
- Tune Capacitor Volt Max Dep Two @(t-6)
- LF Reflected Timing Dep Two @(t)
- LFC Flow Mean @(t-17)
- Tune Capacitor Volt Mean Dep One @(t)
- Tune Capacitor Volt Mean Dep One @(t-20)
- PValve Angle Max Pump Up @(t-1)
- LF Reflected Mean Dep One @(t-15)

# Development of Smart Feature Selection for Advanced Virtual Metrology
B Lenz, B Barak and C Leicht, ASMC, 2014
## Recursive Feature Elimination
1. Train SVM(model) and optimize weights w
2. Calculate the ranking criterion for all features
3. Remove lowest ranked feature
4. Repeat 1) to 3) until no more feature is available
- Evolutionary Recursive Feature Elimination: The new algorithm combines the merits of Leave-One-Out (LOO) RFE and heuristic Genetic Algorithms to avoid local optima.
